Hey, Michael. Hey, everybody. Welcome to Python Bytes. We've got some fun things for us today.
And if you're joining on the live stream or watching on YouTube, you'll see some cool
stuff like some extra logo stuff. Nice. Nice job, Michael.
Thank you. Anyway, you ready to get started?
Let's do it. I'm excited to be back.
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news and headlines directly
to your earbuds. This is episode 373, recorded March 5th, 2024. And I'm Brian Okken.
And I'm Michael Kennedy.
And you're just back from, where were you last week?
I was in the Philippines, hanging out in warm weather and meeting some new people, experiencing
new places.
Nice.
It was excellent.
Nice to have you back.
Yeah, thanks. Good to be back.
This episode is sponsored by Scout APM. We'll hear more about them later. If you want to
connect with us or the show, we're on Fosstodon. You can go to mkennedy@brianocken or at Pythonbytes@fostadon.org.
And if you're listening to us later, you can join us live if you want. Go to pythonbytes.fm/live
and join the audience there.
So, Michael, what do you got for us first?
Well, I have some super fun stuff. This one is not purely a Python thing, but it sure
is helpful for Python developers. Brian, would you say that you use the terminal a fair amount
in your world?
Yes.
As do I. And navigating the terminal is always a bit of a hassle. I'm like, "Michael, did
you really need to have it that deep of a directory tree folder structure for this thing?
Because your CD and this CD and that, did you need to name them the same?" So, like,
tab complete doesn't really help you as much as you would want and so on. So I want to
tell you about zOxide. So zOxide is like CD, you know, the command, one of the very first
things you learn when you learn about terminals, command prompts, and so on. But it's way
better. The oxide is because it's written in Rust, so that probably means it has VC
funding or something. No, just kidding. But it is backed by warp, which I've talked about
before, which is also written in Rust, and I believe does. Anyway, the idea is that there's
a little graphical animation. So the idea is once you install it into your terminal
and whatever terminal you're using, it pretty much supports that.
Okay.
So once you install it, it will start to remember all of your directory changes, at
least if you use it. And I'll tell you more about that in a second. But if you use it
to move around, like, imagine you've got a directory, the example they're using on the
screen here is something like, let's see, some long path slash foo, you know, some slash
long slash path slash foo, right? Like a big directory structure. You could just say CD
foo, and it'll just take you into that structure because it's like, all right, well, if the
only directory structure I've ever seen that you actually cared to go into, that involves
the word foo is this one. You can say CD long, and it would take you just some slash long.
Once there's more than one, there's like a conflict. Then you can do a couple of things,
you can hit space and then tab and it'll pull up like a little auto complete. Or you can
instead of like the hotkey they show or the command they show is Z, you could Z for some
of our folks, you could type ZI for interactive. And it'll show you like a fuzzy completion
search deal of all the history you've ever had. You can go into kind of an interactive
way to go and find the files or the paths that you've looked for before. So isn't that
cool?
- It is cool. I definitely need to check this out.
- Yeah, I've been using it for a few days and I really like it. So a lot of what you
know about CD is the same as Z. So you can say Z dot dot, you can say Z minus to go to
the previous directory, not necessarily up one, but just wherever you were before. Like
I said, you do the ZI for the interactive or type a little bit and just space tab to
pull up auto complete. And you can get it in a bunch of ways. Like look at all these
platforms, Linux, macOS, Windows, BSD, even Android. And on Mac, you can do a bunch of
ways. You can conda forge it, you can ASDF it, you can home brew it, all those. And then
look at all the different shells here.
- Wow, yeah.
- You can conch the Python based one, but it's got the Z shell, which is what I'm doing
these days. And then if you want that interactive version, you need to install FZF, which is
a command line fuzzy finder thing that you can do. And then the thing that's interesting
is like when I did this, there's no way, no way I'm going to remember to type Z. I'm just
going to type CD. And then after a while, I'll be like, oh, I should have used Z, but
it won't be in the history. So let me just swap it out for Z, for CD, you know, swap
those. And so what you can do when you install it, does it say on here? Probably, maybe it
does. Oh, it's up under the configuration. So in the shell configuration, but you have
to do this eval Z oxide init ZSH. But then you can also say --command CMD is
some other character. If you don't want to use Z and if you say command is CD, then just
CD becomes this, this thing instead. And of course, if you don't like it, right, you just
comment it out. It goes away. That's what I did.
That ends up showing up in your, one of your dot files or something.
Yeah. I put it in my ZSHRC dot file for me and just put that at the bottom. You know,
if I ever decide, you know what, I just want my CD back. I could take that part out. Or
if I don't like this, I just comment that thing out. It's pretty cool.
Yeah. I was just thinking, I don't know if I want to type Z because that's with my pinky
where CD's with my middle finger. I'll probably map it to something else like E or C or something
like that.
Yeah.
Or just CD.
Yeah. I switched it to CD. And then if you want to do the interactive, you do CDI. But
I think this is cool. It's, it's not going to change your life, but it's also
little, little extra things that make your life a little faster. It's good.
So I find it really interesting that on both windows and Mac Linux to some degree, but
windows and Mac even more, especially Mac, like you open up the default terminal experience
and it is bad, bad. It's like, they want you to stay out of it. You know what I mean?
Yeah.
And then it opens up it's white, white background, which I don't know, for some reason, terminals,
it just seems wrong for that. But then also it's, it's like the wrong font. The fonts
are incredibly small. There's, there's not hardly anything installed to help you. Right.
Like it's just so many levels of, you can add on these little tools that just make it
so much nicer. So anyway, I'm a big fan.
Before we move on, one question from the chat was does it remember, does it remember directories
across terminal sessions?
It does remember across terminal sessions. I think it must keep a little hidden folder
file or something like that. I didn't pay attention, but yeah, it's just, you need to
have interacted with it. I'm pretty sure it does it across sessions though.
Okay, cool. Definitely check it out. Speaking of command line interfaces, I'd like to talk
about building them.
Oh yeah.
So smart, there's an article called from Raul Pai, I think, smart CLIs with Typer. And I,
I was like just excited to see this because I love Typer and I've been using both Typer
and arg parse a lot actually. When it, I guess for me, I use Typer if I'm already importing
other stuff, but if it's a package or a project that doesn't have any external dependencies,
then I'll try to use arg parse because I don't want to pull in a external dependency just
for Typer sort of thing. However, but Typer is really fun. This is a cool article. And
what I was surprised by was there was a whole bunch of stuff I learned in this. Even though
I've been using it for years, there's some great things that I didn't know about. So
there's great article, check it out. But first thing I want to say is like right off the
bat, it just talks about sort of a comparison between an arg parse version and a Typer version.
It's not hugely different, but it just talks about how Typer, you don't have to like declare
your arguments. You, you just have a function. You can just have it discover it. You can
just have a function like main and, and Typer figures out that all of your type hinted arguments
to that function are now arguments to your script, which is cool. But I want to hop to
the things that I didn't, maybe I knew about and forgot or just never knew about like how
easy it is to do help. So, well, help is actually a little easier in arg parse, but it's not
that bad in Typer. You have to, you have to do a Typer annotated thing with a argument
and with help on it. It's a little clunkier, I guess just, it's not that bad, but it's
a lot different than the, if you don't want to help, you just have to, it's a little bit
more work anyway. Prompting for input. I did not know you could do this. So if you have
a, like, like you, like you would add help, you add a prompt instead. If it's, if it's
left out, what happens is Typer will prompt the user for it. So like in the example, it
gives a name and an age for this little example script. If you forgot to put an age, it'll
prop pop up and say, how old are you? That's, that's pretty cool that you can add a prompt.
That's really cool. Yeah. I really like that actually. I'm definitely going to have to
try this cause that's, there's a lot of times where it's good to have like some defaults,
but also, yeah. Speaking of defaults, you can also add an environmental variable so
that if the default doesn't have to be hard coded, but it could be an environmental variable
that you set. And then if you didn't, if you didn't add the argument it'll pull it from
an environmental variable. So very cool there. What else? It talks about explicit apps versus
is it, is it kind of a different way to do it? And to do a couple of ways to do our Typer
and explicit app one is one of the ways, one of the neat things you get with that is multiple
commands. And so there's an example of doing multiple commands. I love that feature of,
of a, of Typer. And then as a comparison, a similar sort of a thing with our parks would
have been a sub commands. So kind of a fun article. And then I kind of got lost in the
whole reusable command thing, but yeah. Yeah. This looks great. Yeah. I didn't know about
the input one or the environment variable. And these are both awesome. Yeah. Cool. If
you're making your own command line interfaces. And I also appreciated the shout out
to our parks, not like because that is the other one. Most people should consider either
type or parks, I think so for sure. Andrew out there says that yes, Z oxide does have
a persistent database as I thought. And also asked whether Typer supports the union operator,
the pipe operator for types. Not sure. He said it didn't used to. I'm not sure if it
does. I don't know. I think you could run into issues. Like if you said this is pipe
int or pipe date, time, like it could try to parse as a date, time, but then see the
number as like a timestamp. I can see, I don't know. I can see how it can be tricky. So maybe
it's by design. I'm guessing not yet, but I guess just maybe based on the last time
I tried it, cause one of the things is optional. So you, if one of the things I love about
the, the bar for, for, for types is to be able to say into or none as an optional thing,
but that's not how you do it with type or with type where you have to say option, like
at least the last time I tried it, you had to say optional int equals none. But actually
this is even yeah. Optional makes it so that it's like int or none. So yeah. Cool. Cool.
Awesome. Awesome. What else is awesome? Michael, our sponsor, our sponsor is awesome. Let's
take a moment and thank them and tell you about them and then I'll get back to it. Let
me tell you real quick about Scout APM. They're big supporters of Python bites. So we appreciate
that very much. So if you are tired of spending hours trying to find the root cause of issues
impacting your performance, then you owe it to yourself to check out Scout APM. They're
a leading Python application performance monitoring tool, APM that helps you identify and solve
performance abnormalities faster and easier. Scout APM ties bottlenecks such as memory
leaks, slow database queries, background jobs, and the dreaded N plus one queries that you
can end up if you do lazy loading in your ORM, then you say, Oh no, why is it so slow?
Why are you doing 200 database queries for what should be one? So you can find out things
like that. And it links it back directly to source code. So you can spend less time in
the debugger and healing logs and just finding the problems and moving on. And you'll love
it because it's built for developers by developers. It makes it easy to get set up. Seriously,
you can do it in less than four minutes. So that's awesome. And the best part is the pricing
is straightforward. You only pay for the data that used with no hidden overage fees or Percy
pricing. And I just learned this, Brian, they also have, they provide the pro version for
free to all open source projects. So if you're an open source maintainer, and you want to
have Scout APM for that project, just shoot them a message or something on their pricing
page about that. So you can start your free trial and get instant insights today. Visit
by them by set of him slash scout. The link is in your podcast player show notes as well.
And please use that link. Don't just search for them because otherwise they don't think
you came from us. And then they'd stop supporting the show. So please use our link by them by
set of him slash scout, check them out. It really supports the show. Awesome. Awesome.
Brian, are you have you looked into like, buffer overflows and how all that kind of
bad stuff happens? It's first time I learned about it. It was just fascinating about how
you could abuse computers. Yeah, yeah. Well, I'm, I'm in C++. So a lot of the time, so
you basically create buffer overflow. Yeah. Like commonly. Yeah. Well, you know, C++ got
the like the not just the print F, but like the safe print Fs and other things like
there was additional like checking. Yeah, wants to help prevent that, right. But the
our very own NSA, who knows something about buffer overflows, I suppose, recommended something
pretty interesting. It says this was actually a shout out to Samuel Colvin, who put this
on Twitter. I don't know. I think Twitter needs to decide what it is. Is it x or the
Twitter? I mean, I know they use the word x and the symbol x, but what's the domain?
It's not x.com. It's twitter.com. Come on. So what are you? All right, back back to the
top. Exeter. Exeter. I think x Twitter is the best we can do. Anyway, he pointed out
something with some interesting commentary here said the US government, specifically
the NSA looking to say, hey, maybe we should have it harder to break into our systems.
The government explicitly recommends six memory safe languages. Okay. And then he also creates
a bit of a juxtaposition here. C# created by Microsoft. And there's usually like one
or two people behind this, right? For example, the C# was Andrew Talsberg, who also
did TypeScript, Go created by Google, Java created by Sun, bought by Oracle, Rust created
by Borm by Bermuda, Swift by Apple and Python created by one genius on his own Christmas
holiday. Python is an extraordinary demonstration of the impact one person and the group that
they build and have on the world, which I think brings together two interesting ideas
here, right? Like that, I thought is officially one of the memory safe languages recommended
that we should be using by the NSA. And then just the fact that we know it's had. Yeah.
Yeah. Just, I think it's interesting that I didn't really realize that rust was memory
safe, but yeah, that's interesting too, isn't it? It's it's I think that's part of its magic,
right? How it's kind of a low level systems language, but it's way more memory safe as
well with its ownership and all that. But, and then, oh my gosh, this is really took
off. It must be why I saw it's 781,000 views. But then if you look, if you look at the comments,
the comments, I can't see it cause I'm not logged in, but there are many, many comments
and the commentary is varied and interesting down there. Let me just tell you, but yeah,
I think this is interesting. Like just one more reason to use Python or, you know, other
memory safe languages as well. But for example, in the comments, people pulling out, well,
rust was created by one person while they were at Mozilla. But I, you know, I think
it's, it's maybe a little bit different to say, you know, you were funded by this big
tech company to create this thing and you know, you did it.
Yeah. Well, I mean, you have to, we have to, we're not really, I mean, I don't think Sam
is intending to diss all the other languages. There's, there's definitely.
No, he was more props to, to get to. But if you look at all the comments, it just, it,
it does what you would expect a post like this to do as people like get there, you know,
their, their baby, not quite love highly notable in its absence is JavaScript here.
Hmm. Yeah. Yeah. Interesting.
Yep. All right. Well, we'll leave it there. People can check it out, but that's, yeah.
So we'll also have to, I haven't looked at the recommendation, the NSA recommendation
either. So hope to check that out as well. Yeah. They, NSA says use Python.
Use Python. Yes. I mean, you know, and we all listen to the NSA. I mean, in this case
too, though. Yeah. I thought it was the other way around. Didn't the NSA listen to us?
Oh yeah. Right. Okay. So I'm going to go back to the command line world for a moment
and talk about textual. So we've talked about texture before Wilma Cougan's child. So,
you know, with came from rich than textual, but textual is over@textual.textualize.io.
So that's a great place to look for demonstrations and stuff. So if you go there, there's some,
some cool demos of what other people are doing with it and some other projects. These are
great. Wow. The Dolphy looks cool anyway. So what I wanted to cover was that it does
have its own tutorials. So if you go, go to the main page, you can go on tutorials and
there's a, there's a great tutorial for how to use it. There's a little timer tutorial.
It's nice. But maybe, maybe the way that they're teaching there just doesn't fit you. So I
was really glad to see that Mike Driscoll over at mouse versus Python has some textual
tutorials that he's started. And what caught my attention was the creating a modal dialogue
for your two ease with tech and textual, but he's got like four different blog posts around
tutorials around textual right now. So Mike's done some great work teaching people before.
So I wanted to shout out to Mike for this. The modal dialogue is kind of fun. It goes
through a little fairly simple example, but the code's really just not complicated to
follow along with. So really kind of fun talking about how to do a modal dialogue, because
that's something, are you sure you want to quit? Are you sure you want to quit? But there's
other things like, are you sure you want to delete your entire repository? And then we
recommend a where clause in your delete statement against the database. Yeah. So anyway, good
job Mike for, for jumping on this and to help him to teach textual. So cool. Yeah, that's
really cool. Textual is very, very interesting. So cool. All right. Well, those are our topics.
Do you have any extras for us? I have just a couple of extras I'd like to go through
here. So one, you know, ngrok, we've talked about ngrok before. If you need to let people
access services, typically HTTP, but it could honestly be anything on your system. You could
run ngrok. It's super cool. I'll use it. I pay for it. You know, so like I'm working
on a web app and I want somebody to be able to actually interact with it, but I'm behind
a firewall somewhere else. You can just run ngrok, get an SSL backed URL. That's kind
of some random thing that people go to. So that's the CLI and all that, but they've released
a little while ago, December, they released a ngrok Python SDK. So if you want to write
apps that basically temporarily spin up ways for people to get into systems, like maybe
you're on a Raspberry Pi or you're on some IOT thing and it's locked away somewhere,
but you need for it to be able to, people to get to it under certain circumstances or
whatever. Right. Then here you go, write some code and you plug into all that infrastructure.
It's pretty cool. That is pretty handy. Yeah. Yep. I don't have a particular use case for
it, but cause I just use ngrok directly, but I'm a big fan of ngrok and I think, you know,
I'm sure there's going to be some interesting things. You can even do a Unix sockets, like
Unix dot sock type of thing, which is pretty wild. So gets, gets quite, quite advanced.
All right. What else? Let's see. I recently, we talked, you brought up Djangonauts a while
ago. And so I recently had Sarah Boyce and Tushar Gupta from the Django knot program
on talk Python. That was, I think released last week, recorded a while ago, but released
last week. And so I just want to give a shout out to that since we brought it up first on
the show. Nice. Cool. Yeah. Then Sarah was very excited to hear you mention it when you
brought it up. She said on the show, this show on our, on talk Python, she mentioned
that she was excited to hear it here. So that's cool. Also, I had a really interesting experience
with my phone brain. I was looking at my phone going, I'm not sure I really like the color
anymore and I've had it for a little while. Maybe I'll get a new phone. And then like,
what is wrong with you? It's an iPhone 13. So I've had it for a while, but you're just
going to put a black case on it anyway. Maybe you just get a different case. You know, it
kind of doesn't hold his charge as long. So maybe just get a new battery for it. It's
like depending on the one you got 69 bucks, 89 bucks for a new battery instead of like
a thousand dollars for a new phone, $5 for a new case, 90 bucks for a new battery dropped
by the Apple store. They'll switch it. I just want to encourage people like, Hey, you might
be able to just up, you know, improve your phone or you don't give it a different color
without going over the top. Yeah. What do I got? I got an eight plus that I'm using.
It still works fine. That just changed battery every couple of years. Yeah, exactly. And
it's, it seems pretty trustworthy to do it at Apple, right? They use the same battery
or better. They might not have the same old battery. Sorry. You got to get a better one.
Okay. Take it. Nice. Cool. Anyway, that's, that's my public service announcement for
people out there applies to Android as well. You get a new case for Android as well. Okay.
Well I have a couple of extras. One of them is a public surface thing, but the first one
is just a shout out to a Hennix new video. We talked about uv a couple of weeks ago,
I think, or last week. I can't remember. And there's a video called is uv the future of
Python packaging. And it's, it's like 20 minutes, 17 minutes, but it's it's a really kind of
a nice look at the background of really what's going on here. The speed ups might not seem
the speed, everything's fast, faster is great. Right. But there's more to it than that. And
kind of about some of the future that they might be putting together after this is, is
important. So interesting, interesting discussion. I encourage people to check it out. The other
public service announcement that I wanted to say was I use Venmo occasionally, mostly
to send money to and from my daughter. But but I didn't notice and I don't want to show
off too much, but that's Venmo, you know. But I was surprised when I looked at my old
transactions and found that the there's a feed feature where you can where everybody
that's connected to you or even not connected to you can see everything that you spent money
on. And I'm like, what the heck is this for?
Not just money, but like why the little message to the person and all sorts of stuff.
I don't think you can see them out, but you see that somebody paid somebody else. And
then you can click on the other person and follow their feed and follow other people.
And this doesn't make sense for finances. So I would encourage everybody to go into
your settings and just turn that to private. Nobody needs to see that. I don't know why
there's a social feature for a money sharing app. What? It's horrible. Weird. I ended up
using Venmo as well because my kids are like, dad, I'm going to Venmo you. How about PayPal?
Venmo? I'm like, all right. But yeah, it's it drives me nuts that I could see people
that I was even friends with 15 years ago. I still see what they're buying and who they
shared lunch with. It's just like that. It doesn't belong in this space. I just don't
think so. Yeah. Turn turn the feet off, turn the feet off. And also, I don't think it
shouldn't be on by default. And also people don't know about it. So other people, you
know, that use Venmo, let them know that their feeds public. So yeah. Anyway, cool. Well,
that was kind of serious. But do we have something funny? Oh, this is very serious to no jokes.
All right. So here's a developer and a project manager speaking. The developer starts out
and says, I can ship this feature that you want in four weeks because listen, I need
to write maintainable code. We can't just have like this tech debt piling up and all
this junk. Right. Like this is a professional organization. The PM says, what if we delegate
maintenance to someone else? Oh, I can release that in three days. Exactly. No test, Brian.
We don't need to come on. Yeah. Well, yeah. So optional. So optional. That's someone else's
problem. Just kidding. Well, is done when like when all the defects are done or
that you don't report that to the other person. The API is frozen. Yeah. Anyway. So exactly.
Well, three days. I can hack that in three days. Yeah. No, no problem. We got it. We
got it covered. Yeah. My favorite is when somebody asks like one person on the team,
how long to take this? Can you get this to get it done? And and like one stage says like
a week. So they promise a customer a week. And there's like so many other people that
need to work on it. Yes. Oh, yeah. Oh, did you want documentation? Do you want that?
You want that written up as well? Oh, I see. Oh, a user interface for that also. That's
going to be nobody pointed that out. So, yeah. Tests or none. Yeah. Anyway. Wait, we got
to close it out with a comment from Alvaro test pipe. None test or none of the typing
system. Yeah. Optional. Tests are optional. That's our option. Yeah. Anyway. Again, thanks
for the wonderful episode, Michael. And we'll talk to you next week. Good to be back. Thanks
Thanks for being here.